add denovo to the pipeline (#25)
genomic-medicine-sweden/metaval: docs/usage.md

| sample              | Unique sample name [required].                                                                                                            |
| run_accession       | Run ID or name unique for each (pairs of) file(s). Can also supply sample name again here, if only a single run was generated [required]. |
| instrument_platform | Sequencing platform reads generated on, selected from the EBI ENA controlled vocabulary [required].                                       |

> | fastq_1             | Unmapped human reads from bowtie2/minimap2, filtered reads from bbduk/(nanoq/FiltLong) or raw reads. Gzipped compressed files accepted.   |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| fastq_1             | Unmapped human reads from bowtie2/minimap2, filtered reads from bbduk/nanoq/FiltLong or raw sequencing reads. Gzipped compressed files accepted.   |
```

> | fastq_2             | Unmapped human reads from bowtie2, filtered reads from bbduk/(nanoq/FiltLong) or raw reads. Gzipped compressed files accepted.            |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| fastq_2             | Unmapped human reads from bowtie2, filtered reads from bbduk/nanoq/FiltLong or raw reads. Gzipped compressed files accepted.            |
```

sample2,run1,ILLUMINA,sample2.unmapped_1.fastq.gz,sample2.unmapped_2.fastq.gz,sample2.kraken2.kraken2.report.txt,sample2.kraken2.kraken2.classifiedreads.txt,kraken2_kraken2-db.tsv,sample2.centrifuge.txt,sample2.centrifuge.results.txt,centrifuge_centrifuge-db.tsv,sample2.diamond.tsv,diamond_diamond-db.tsv
```

### Optional input

#### Pathogen genome database

> A concatenated FASTA file containing all the pathogen genomes you are interested in.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A concatenated FASTA file containing all the pathogen genomes a user is interested in.
```

#### accession2taxid

Users need to prepare a file containing accession IDs of pathogens and their corresponding taxonomic IDs

#### Blastn and/or Blastn database

> Use a custom database or download available [NCBI databases](https://ftp.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/blast/db/). See the [documentation](https://ftp.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/blast/documents/blastdb.html). To speed up the BLAST process, it is recommended to use the appropriate database. For example, for viruses, one could use `ref_viruses_rep_genomes` or `refseq_protein` instead of the `nt` or `nr` database.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use a custom database or download available [NCBI databases](https://ftp.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/blast/db/). See the [documentation](https://ftp.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/blast/documents/blastdb.html). To speed up the BLAST process, be cautious with which the choice of database. For example, for viruses, one could use `ref_viruses_rep_genomes` or `refseq_protein` instead of the `nt` or `nr` database.
```

## Running the pipeline

The example commands for running each workflow are as follows:

```bash
# Green Workflow - pathogen screening

> nextflow run genomic-medicine-sweden/meta-val --input ./samplesheet.csv --outdir ./results -profile docker --perform_screen_pathogens --pathogens_genomes /path/to/reference.fna --accession2taxid /path/to/accession2taxid.map

Reviewer: Is the `accession2taxid` custom or is it downloaded from NCBI?

Author: accessions and taxid of pathogens. Users should prepare it. I have documented it in schema. But I could state that in usage again.

Reviewer: Let's make it clear in the usage and you can resolve afterwards.

Author: I have added it to the usage.

The typical command for running the pipeline is as follows:

```bash

> nextflow run genomic-medicine-sweden/meta-val --input ./samplesheet.csv --outdir ./results -profile docker --perform_extract_reads --extract_kraken2_reads

Reviewer: I would suggest to have an example of how to run each workflow here.

Author: Done!

You can also generate such `YAML`/`JSON` files via [nf-core/launch](https://nf-co.re/launch).

> ### Decontanmination

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Decontamination
```

> Filter the output files from metagenomics classifiers like `Kraken2`, `Centrifuge`, or `DIAMOND` to remove false positives and background contamination can be activated with `--decontamination`. This step compares results to the negative control to identify likely present species based on user-defined thresholds, effecitively eliminating background noise from microbiome species.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Filter the output files from metagenomics classifiers like `Kraken2`, `Centrifuge`, or `DIAMOND` to remove false positives and background contamination can be activated with `--decontamination`. This step compares results to the negative control to identify likely present species based on user-defined thresholds. 
```

Reviewer: This step would remove known contaminants from kits, right? Maybe mention that here?

### Extract Viral TaxIDs

This step extracts all taxonomic IDs of viral species predicted by classifers. Switching on by `--perform_extract_reads`

### Extract Reads

This step either pulls the reads of all viral TaxIDs predicted by classifiers or extracts reads from a user-defined list of TaxIDs separated by spaces when the `--taxid` option is activated. Extracting reads predicted by `Kraken2` can be activated with `--extract_kraken2_reads`, extracting reads predicted by `Centrifuge` can be activated with `--extract_centrifuge_reads` and extracting reads predicted by `DIAMOND` can be activated with `--extract_diamond_reads`.

If the `--taxid` option is included in the command line, the pipeline will only extract reads for the specified TaxIDs, in other words, `--taxid` takes priority.

### de-novo assembly

> De novo assembly can be performed for extracted reads of TaxIDs by disabling `--skip_shortread_denovo` for short reads or the `--skip_longread_denovo` option for long reads, provided the number of reads exceeds `params.min_read_counts`. The recommended minimum number of reads is 100. If there are too few reads, the process will fail.

Reviewer: So, de-novo assembly is the default? I find it a bit confusing with the `skip` prefix in front of the denovo-related parameters.

Author: I feel same. Will change it into `perform_denovo`

Author: Done!

> De novo assembly can be performed for extracted reads of TaxIDs by disabling `--skip_shortread_denovo` for short reads or the `--skip_longread_denovo` option for long reads, provided the number of reads exceeds `params.min_read_counts`. The recommended minimum number of reads is 100. If there are too few reads, the process will fail.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
De novo assembly can be performed for extracted reads of TaxIDs by disabling `--skip_shortread_denovo` for short reads or the `--skip_longread_denovo` option for long reads, provided the number of reads exceeds  the parameter `min_read_counts`. The recommended minimum number of reads is 100. If there are too few reads, the process will fail.
```

You can also generate such `YAML`/`JSON` files via [nf-core/launch](https://nf-co.re/launch).

### Decontamination

> Filter the output files from metagenomics classifiers like `Kraken2`, `Centrifuge`, or `DIAMOND` to remove false positives and background contamination can be activated with `--decontamination`. This step compares results to the negative control to identify likely present species based on user-defined thresholds.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Filter the output files from metagenomics classifiers like `Kraken2`, `Centrifuge`, or `DIAMOND` to remove false positives and background contamination can be activated by enabling `--decontamination` option. This step compares results to the negative control to identify likely present species based on user-defined thresholds.
```

### Extract Viral TaxIDs

This step extracts all taxonomic IDs of viral species predicted by classifers. Switching on by `--perform_extract_reads`

### Extract Reads

> This step either pulls the reads of all viral TaxIDs predicted by classifiers or extracts reads from a user-defined list of TaxIDs separated by spaces when the `--taxid` option is activated. Extracting reads predicted by `Kraken2` can be activated with `--extract_kraken2_reads`, extracting reads predicted by `Centrifuge` can be activated with `--extract_centrifuge_reads` and extracting reads predicted by `DIAMOND` can be activated with `--extract_diamond_reads`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This step either retrieves the reads of all viral TaxIDs predicted by classifiers or extracts reads from a user-defined list of TaxIDs separated by spaces when the `--taxid` option is activated. Extracting reads predicted by `Kraken2` can be activated with `--extract_kraken2_reads`, extracting reads predicted by `Centrifuge` can be activated with `--extract_centrifuge_reads` and extracting reads predicted by `DIAMOND` can be activated with `--extract_diamond_reads`.
```

You can also generate such `YAML`/`JSON` files via [nf-core/launch](https://nf-co.re/launch).

### Decontamination

> Filter the output files from metagenomics classifiers like `Kraken2`, `Centrifuge`, or `DIAMOND` to remove false positives and background contamination can be activated by enabling `--decontamination` option. This step compares results to the negative control to identify likely present species based on user-defined thresholds.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Filtering the output files from metagenomics classifiers like `Kraken2`, `Centrifuge`, or `DIAMOND` to remove false positives and background contamination can be activated by enabling `--decontamination` option. This step compares results to the negative control to identify likely present species based on user-defined thresholds.
```

### Extract Viral TaxIDs

> This step involves extracting all taxonomic IDs of viral species predicted by classifiers by enabling `--perform_extract_reads`, while not specifying a taxonomic ID list with `--taxid`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This step involves extracting all taxonomic IDs of viral species predicted by classifiers by enabling `--perform_extract_reads`and the `--taxid` should be empty.
```

### Extract Reads

> This step either retrieves the reads of all viral TaxIDs predicted by classifiers or extracts reads from a user-defined list of TaxIDs separated by spaces when the `--taxid` option is activated. Extracting reads predicted by `Kraken2` can be activated with `--extract_kraken2_reads`, extracting reads predicted by `Centrifuge` can be activated with `--extract_centrifuge_reads` and extracting reads predicted by `DIAMOND` can be activated with `--extract_diamond_reads`.

Reviewer: So, this step does both?

Author: Yes, it either extracts reads for identified viral taxids or for a user-defined list of taxids

If the `--taxid` option is included in the command line, the pipeline will only extract reads for the user specified TaxIDs, in other words, `--taxid` takes priority.

### de-novo assembly

De-novo assembly can be performed for extracted reads of TaxIDs by enabling `--perform_shortread_denovo` for short reads or the `--perform_longread_denovo` option for long reads, provided the number of reads exceeds `params.min_read_counts`. The recommended minimum number of reads is 100. If there are too few reads, the process will fail.

### Mapping

> To screen for the existence of pathogens in raw reads, map the raw reads to a pathogens genome database (`--pathogens_genomes`) by activating the `--perform_screen_pathogens` option. Alternatively, map the extract reads of taxIDs to the genomes that correspond to the positive hits from BLASTx/BLASTn.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To screen for the existence of pathogens in samples, map the raw reads to a pathogens genome database (`--pathogens_genomes`) by activating the `--perform_screen_pathogens` option. Alternatively, map the extract reads of taxIDs to the genomes that correspond to the positive hits from BLASTx/BLASTn.
```
